
References: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.MultiAZSingleStandby.html
            https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/database/amazon-rds-under-the-hood-single-az-instance-recovery/
			https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_PIT.html
			https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_RenameInstance.html
			
The RTO would be the time it takes to start up a new RDS instance and then apply all the changes since the last backup.
The RPO might be longer, up to the time the Availability Zone failure occurred.


1) Minimum RTO for a single AZ outage
Estimated Time: 60-120 seconds

"If a planned or unplanned outage of your DB instance results from an infrastructure defect, Amazon RDS automatically switches to a standby replica in
 another Availability Zone if you have turned on Multi-AZ. The time that it takes for the failover to complete depends on the database activity and 
 other conditions at the time the primary DB instance became unavailable. Failover times are typically 60–120 seconds."
 

2) Minimum RTO for a single region outage
The RTO time requires starting up a new RDS instance and then Configure all changes since the last backup.
Estimated Time : 30 mins to 1 hour


3) Minimum RPO for a single AZ outage
The RPO is 0 because Data loss of minimum as the secondary instance stores the data.

4) Minimum RPO for a single region outage


"RDS uploads transaction logs for DB instances to Amazon S3 every 5 minutes.
To determine the latest restorable time for a DB instance, use the AWS CLI describe-db-instances
command and look at the value returned in the LatestRestorableTime field for the DB instance.
In the AWS Management Console, this property is visible as the Latest restore time for the
DB instance. You can restore to any point in time during your backup retention period."


"The RTO timing requires starting up a new Amazon RDS instance and then applying all changes
since the last backup. The RPO is typically 5 minutes, but you can find it by calling
RDS:describe-db-instances:LatestRestorableTime. This time can vary from 10 minutes to hours,
depending on the number of logs that need to be applied. It can only be determined by testing
because it depends on the size of the database, the number of changes made since the last
backup, and the workload levels on the database."

"There is also application configuration change time to point to a new instance. This depends on
application architecture. At the minimum - one config change. There is also an option to not to
change the config but rename restored instance using older name.

Total Estimated time: 10-30 minutes restoring time and around 10 minutes for reconfiguration.